The Project Gutenberg EBook of London Sonnets, by Humbert Wolfe

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: London Sonnets

Author: Humbert Wolfe

Release Date: March 11, 2020 [EBook #61598]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LONDON SONNETS ***




Produced by Chuck Greif, MWS and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









                       “ADVENTURERS ALL” SERIES
                              No. XXVII.

                         [Illustration: XXVII]

                            LONDON SONNETS

[Illustration: Adventurers
                All.

                       _A SERIES OF YOUNG POETS
                                UNKNOWN
                               TO FAME._

     Come my friends.... ’Tis not too late to seek a newer world. It may
     be that the gulfs will wash us down.... It may be we shall touch
     the happy isles. Yet our purpose holds ... to sail beyond the
     sunset.
                                                              _Ulysses_]

[Illustration:

LONDON SONNETS

BY

HUMBERT WOLFE

[Illustration: text decoration]

OXFORD
BASIL BLACKWELL, BROAD STREET,
1920]




                              DEDICATION.


              These were the first anemones--
              God only in his heaven sees
              How moving on their small green feet
              They blossomed in a London street,
              From a cool valley, as I guess,
              Beneath a hill in Lyonesse.




CONTENTS.

[Illustration: text decoration]


                                                                    Page

Dedication                                                             4

LONDON PSEUDO-SONNETS:
  The Old Clothes Dealer                                               9
  Coves at Hampton Court                                              10
  One Man Returns                                                     11
  The Bun-Shop                                                        12
  The Fried Fish-Shop                                                 13
  The Streets Behind the Tottenham Court Road                         14
  The Yorkshire Grey                                                  15
  Wardour Street                                                      16
  The Suburbs                                                         17
  The Last London Sonnet                                              18

OTHER VERSE:
  “Sometimes when I Think of Love”                                    21
  Old                                                                 26
  The Song of the Gambucinos                                          28
  February 14                                                         29
  Pierrot                                                             30
  The Dead Man in the Pool                                            32
  Dead Lover                                                          35
  The Gods of the Copy-Book Headings                                  36
  Wheels 1919                                                         38
  The Well                                                            41
  Judas                                                               43
  The Night                                                           44

OTHER SONNETS:
  Three Sonnets of Love                                               49
  The Reply                                                           52
  God Gave us Bodies                                                  53
  Ronsard and Hélène                                                  54
  The Drift of the Lute                                               55
  Love and Beauty                                                     56

WAR VERSE:
  V. D. F.                                                            59
  England                                                             60
  The Moon in Flanders                                                61
  The Soldier Speaks                                                  62
  Flowers at Hampton Court                                            63

[Illustration: text decoration]




                                 TO J.

                        LONDON PSEUDO-SONNETS.


Some of these verses have appeared in _The Saturday Review_, _The
Spectator_, _The Westminster Gazette_, and are republished by the
courtesy of the editors of these journals.




         THE OLD CLOTHES DEALER.


    It’s not my fault, now is it? I’m a Jew.
      I’d a been born a Christian quick enough
      If only so I could have sold my stuff
    Double the price, and not be called a screw.
    There’s half-day Saturday at Synagogue,
      And when Atonement comes a whole day lost.
      O, I don’t grumble; still one counts the cost
    When on the top I’m treated like a dog.
    And, though a Jew should’nt by rights complain
      Bein’ the chosen, can’t a man have dreams?
      Clothes’ dealing’s not the desert, still it seems
    We all of us are wandering again.
    I often think when the Shemah begins
    “O God o’ Jacob ain’t we paid our sins?”




         COVES AT HAMPTON COURT.


    You go by motor-bus from Hammersmith
      And come back loud and cheerful after dark
      Adorned with twigs you’ve plucked in Bushey Park,
    Eating the sandwiches you started with.
    And you don’t care, why should you? when you’re brought
      Into the grimy streets out of the green,
      That, if you’d had the luck, you might have been
    The sort of cove who lives at Hampton Court.

    You’ve got the murders and the betting news,
      And slums to bake in and the picture shows.
      Why should you care if somewhere a red rose
    Burns all night through, and the great avenues
    Are lit as though with candles. What’s the odds?
    London’s for you; the summer’s for the gods.




         ONE MAN RETURNS.


    He wanted me to tear me ’ands to bits
      Along o’ the box-makers, ’stead of which
      I took and bought a basket, struck a pitch
    To sell me flowers by the Hotel Ritz.
    I like ’is cheek. It isn’t ’im wot sits
      Working in darkness till your fingers itch
      And ’arf your side is broken with a stitch--
    ’Im swanking in ’is blessed epaulittes!
    Nor I don’t care, not what you might say care
      If ’e’s gone orf. Not that I’d reely mind
    If, ’earing that I’d got a bit to spare,
      He come back sudden. I should act refined,
    Pin ’im ’is flower in with me ’and quite steady
    And then say proud-like, “Why if it ain’t Freddy.”




         THE BUN-SHOP.


    O damn those marble tables: makes me larf
      To think I’ve finished with them. I believe
      If you rubbed hard on each one with your sleeve,
    You’d find cut on them some gel’s epitaph.
    They look like tombstones, don’t they? in a row
      Quietly waiting in a mason’s yard.
      Seein’ them there cruel and white and hard
    One might ha’ guessed, I think, how things would go.
    But we don’t heed no warning, gels like me,
      And so I stayed, and now they’ve got my name
      Carved deep, with something written about shame
    For the next gel (when her turn comes) to see.
    One comfort though, if God damns us who fell
    He can’t find worse to ’urt us, not in ’Ell.




         THE FRIED FISH-SHOP.


    The upper clawses they don’t like the smell
      Nor they don’t need to. They can pay for food,
      But we who sometimes cawn’t, it does us good.
    Lord, what a life to ’ave fried fish to sell!
    Warm all day long and nuthin’ much to do
      And always a hot bit if you’re inclined.
      Shut all day Sundays and if you’ve a mind
    Always go out and pitch into a Jew.
    But wanting won’t mend ’oles up in your socks
      Nor cure that ’ungry feeling when you stands
      Clappin’ your stummick with your empty ’ands
    And thinking gently of a wooden box
    Where they will lay you at the parish charge
    Straight if you’re small and doubled if you’re large.




         THE STREETS BEHIND THE TOTTENHAM COURT ROAD.


    The quiet folk who live in Kensington
      Mothers of pleasant girls and worthy wives
      Living at ease their comfortable lives
    Don’t think what roots their homes are built upon,
    Don’t think, or wouldn’t listen if you shewed
      That beyond cure by love or change by hate
      Like hooded lepers at each corner wait,
    The streets behind the Tottenham Court Road.
    Row upon row the phantom houses stain
      The sweetness of the air and not a day
      Dies, but some woman’s child turns down that way
    Along those streets and is not seen again.
    And only God can in his mercy say
    Which is more cruel, Kensington or they.




         THE YORKSHIRE GREY.


    The Yorkshire Grey like any other pub,
      Quietly blazes till the final shout
      “Time’s-up” sends the companions tumbling out,
    Giving their lips a last reluctant rub.
    And if you’re passing by on any day
      You’ll hear a woman with a barrel organ,
      Sing in a high cracked voice what sounds like “Morgen,
    Morgen kommt nie und heute is mir weh,”
    And every day whether its rain or shine
      She holds an old umbrella with a handle
      Of curiously carved silver. Whether scandal
    Or tragedy, its no affair of mine.
    Why should I care then when some drunken feller
    Sends her to blazes, her and her umbrella.




         WARDOUR STREET.


    There’s a small cafe off the Avenue
      Where Alphonse, that old sinner, used to fix
      A five-course dinner up at one and six,
    And trust to luck and youth to pull him through.
    I can’t remember much about the wine
      Except that it was ninepence for the quart
      Called claret and was nothing of the sort,
    Cheap like the rest and like the rest divine.
    But Alphonse, I suppose, is long since sped
      And madame’s knitting needles rusted through
      And even Marguerite, like us she flew
    To wait on, waited on by death instead.
    Well Alphonse, well Madame, well Marguerite
    They’ve no more use for us in Wardour Street.




         THE SUBURBS.


    Because they are so many and the same,
      The little houses row on weary row;
    Because they are so loveless and so lame
      It were a bitter thing to tell them so.
    And ill to laugh at those who hither came
      Not without hope and not without a glow,
    And who, perchance, by sorrow struck or shame
      Not without tears look back before they go.

    Here is no place for laughter nor for blame,
      And not for tears, since none shall ever know
    What here is done and suffered, nor proclaim
      The end to which these myriad spirits grow.
    He understands, whose heart remembereth
      That here is all the tale of life and death.




         THE LAST LONDON SONNET.


    All roads in London lead the one last way,
      Like little streams that find a flowing river
      They find the one great road that runs for ever,
    Yet has no London name. They know it, they
    Who when the lamps in Oxford Street are lighted
      And star-strewn Thames through all his bridges moving,
      Velvet assumes, see not for all their loving
    These things they loved, hear not, as uninvited,
    To London revel calling Piccadilly.
      They have gone over to the bitter stranger
      Light-foot and heavy, hug-the-hearth and ranger
    Our streets desert. And under rose and lily
    (Even through Kew were unto lilac setting)
    Sleeping they pass forgotten and forgetting.




         OTHER VERSE.




  “SOMETIMES WHEN I THINK OF LOVE.”


                  I.

    Sometimes when I think of love
      I think of Mimi singing in Boheme,
    Just as the tune across the footlights came
    When we were young, my dear, at Covent Garden!
    Poor music, but before the senses harden
    Puccini’s made for boys and girls to wear
    Spite of sham passion and a poitrinaire.
    For if they looked and didn’t find the key
    At least they found the hearts of you and me.
    That sort of love age thinks of with a smile
    How innocent it was of truth and guile,
    How young perhaps and yet how half-divine
    And how imperishably yours and mine.
    You will not wonder nor will you reprove
    My thoughts of Mimi when I think of love.


                  II.

    Sometimes when I think of love
    I see a boat upon a river,
    And the rushes suddenly shiver,
    Because of a perilous foot that treads
    The reeds and the flowers into their beds.
    Because of a music that shakes and begins
    A different music and conscious of sins
    A tune was old at the birth of the river
    A tune is asleep in the blood for ever
    Asleep in the blood and loving and hating
    The time and the hour for which it is waiting.
    Puccini yields to a sob in the throat
    A hand round the heart as note answers note
    With the music that wrenches and melts and grips
    The hands hot on hands, the lips close on lips
    Cruelly volleying clearer and stronger
    Till we are a boy and a girl no longer.
    And we struggle in vain as long as we can
    Hating and loving and welcoming Pan,
    And you are a woman and I am a man.
    And you will not wonder and cannot reprove
    If I hear Pan’s pipes when I think of love.


                  III.

    Sometimes when I think of love
    I hear a heavy voice repeat
    “There’s a good doctor up the street.”
    And either it seems I am hard at hearing
    Or stupid perhaps or terribly fearing.
    For its late of a winter night and raining
    With cry of wind; or is something complaining?
    One lamp in the street and a leafless tree
    And a thing is moving that frightens me,
    With fingers that hover about my nape
    A shape like a hand and yet not a shape.
    Now all that we had in the past is over
    Each lover’s alone, the love from the lover.
    No comforting hand for me in the gloom,
    No voice of mine in the darkened room.
    Where is the music and where are the songs?
    For love has crept off ashamed of his wrongs.
    Poor love has gone off to rail at passion,
    And he will not wait for the night to fashion
    Out of pain and fear and anguish and danger,
    A lover strange with his love a stranger,
    And yet, as they were at the opera
    Incredibly close and familiar,
    Incredibly close as once on the river
    When each is a gift and each is a giver.
    Incredibly close and all they have hoarded
    Of life and of love in this moment rewarded.
    Rewarded! Has love in the darkness heard
    Of the little lost shadow, the small lost third?
    Love is returning--to find them alone,
    And if love be a sinner, who casts a stone?
    Shattered and beaten and blindingly sure
    Of love and themselves and strong to endure
    He finds them, by pain more lastingly crowned
    Than ever by joy and by laughter were bound
    Happier lovers and lovers untaunted
    By the shameful cries these lovers have haunted.
    If this be their love, who out of the pit
    Being a devil challenges it?
    In heaven assayed, in hell-fire priced
    Who casts the first stone? Not I, says Christ.
    You will not wonder nor will you reprove
    If I think of this, when I think of love.


                  IV.

    Sometimes when I think of love
    I remember how you stooped down from heaven,
    Because they had told you I was unforgiven,
    To take half of the storm, and share the stripe
    An angel in hell with her guttersnipe.
    I am thinking then of your lighted face
    And your hands and the way your fingers lace
    As you sit quietly reading a book.
    Perhaps I move and you suddenly look
    Across the room and the soul in your eyes
    Is bright as it looks with the old surprise
    Changing for ever, for ever the same
    And you break my heart as you speak my name.
    You must not wonder, you will not reprove
    If sometimes I dare not think of love.




         OLD.


    So old, so changed, and odd
        Even as God,
    I am, so odd and old,
    That I am bitter cold
        In heart and limb
              Like him.

    I might in heaven be,
        Even as He.
    So lonely and so rare
    Beyond the utmost prayer
        My spirit weighs,
              Dead days.

    Or I might work in hell
        His miracle.
    Changing from joy to tears,
    To quiet all the years,
        With icy rod,
              Like God.

    I might immortal be
        Even as He.
    Saying, as heaven saith,
    What Victory, Oh death,
        What sting can save,
              Oh grave?

    As I, alone and dumb,
        What doth not come
    Ever, He waits to see
    And surely, waiting, he
        Must pray ah pray! to die
              Even as I.




         THE SONG OF THE GAMBUCINOS.


    The little houses in the street
      And the warm blinds at night,
    Outside the copper on his beat
      And the moon so white, so white.

    They know what we shall never know,
      See what we cannot see,
    The steady lamplit ways that go
      To the quiet cemetery.

    They have not any fear at all
      Of life and of its end.
    They hear church bells, their children call,
      Their wife and death their friend.

    But for us the moon is white, so white
      It drowns us and it stings,
    And we must fly throughout the night
      Because of dangerous things.




         FEBRUARY 14.


    Let’s be done with talking,
      Words are half a snare,
    That fools use for stalking
      What was never there.

    Let’s be done with weeping,
      Tears are but a sign
    That a doom is creeping
      On what was divine.

    Why be broken-hearted?
      Time to break the heart
    If we should be parted
      And not care we part.

    Dear, the wind is over
      In the world outside.
    I was once your lover,
      You were once my bride.

    Let’s go out together.
      In the quiet air,
    We may find each other
      Waiting as we were.




         PIERROT.


    My friend Pierrot your sleeves are far too long.
      Look! I can hardly find at all your hands.
    And all your cotton tunic is cut wrong,
      And what your eyes mean no one understands.

    Ah yes, Pierrette, my sleeves are far too long.
      Ah yes, Pierrette, you cannot find my hands,
    But better so than Pierrot did you wrong
      By telling you what no one understands.

    My friend Pierrot you fear to take the light,
      Look! I can hardly see at all your face.
    And what I see, Pierrot is very white.
      Are you afraid? Ashamed? or in disgrace?

    Ah yes, Pierrette, I dare not take the light.
      Ah yes, Pierrette, you cannot see my face.
    My candle died with love, and in the night
      Oh! Harlequin, Pierrette, is my disgrace.

    My friend Pierrot it seems that things go ill
      With you. Look! I can hardly hear your word,
    And the dark shadow round grows darker still,
      And a new voice which is not yours is heard.

    Ah yes, Pierrette, it seems that things go ill.
      Ah yes, Pierrette, you cannot hear my word.
    And the dark shadow which grows darker still
      Is death, Pierrette, of which you have not heard.




         THE DEAD MAN IN THE POOL.


    Only a glance it was,
      Only a word!
    What a romance it was
      All but absurd!

    All but absurd, you see,
      Yes but not quite.
    There’s one more word you see
      “Death” we must write!

    She had the knack of it
    --Less than a kiss,
    And for the lack of it
      Look he is this.

    O what a king he was
      (Drowned in a pool),
    What a brave thing he was
      O what a fool!

    While all the rest of us
      Struggle to fame,
    Here is the best of us
      Dead with his shame.

    Shame? Oh I wonder now.
      What do you say?
    If you should blunder now
      Choose me your way!

    If you’d thrown hope away;
      Well would you care
    Through life to grope a way?
      Or would you dare

    Take up the lot of it
      Life, love and fame,
    Make a clean shot of it
      Into the flame?

    Ah it was brave of him
      Let them cry “shame.”
    Life made no slave of him!
      But you’ll exclaim,

    Was she worth trying for?
      He thought her so.
    Was she worth dying for?
      Yes, and then no.

    “No,” for a wiser man.
      “No,” for a less.
    But the heart cries “Amen,”
      When he says “yes.”

    There in the pool he was
      Just a dead thing.
    O what a fool he was,
      O what a king!




         DEAD LOVER.


    Tell me, dead lover, you who broke my heart
      (O dead indeed, since love himself is dead).
    Need I remember that we came to part,
      May I forget to whom and why you fled?

    Tell me, dead lover, since the grave is strong,
      And those who sleep are cured of joy and pain,
    And now no love may reach you, do I wrong
      If I begin to love you all again?

    And see, dead lover, since the shadows fall
      And nothing now is false and nothing true.
    Might I not dream (you would not know at all)
      That I, O love, was loved once more by you.

    And since, dead lover, death defeats your pride,
      And ere it dreamed of pride my love awoke,
    O let me think, it was because you died,
      And not because you left me, my heart broke.




         THE GODS OF THE COPY-BOOK HEADINGS.

                    A REPLY.


    Fenris the wolf, and Jörmungand the snake
      In the slime and the swamp remorseless wait.
    For not the years nor human hopes can break
      Valhalla’s sentence thus pronounced by Fate.

    “These gods that are the children of men’s dreams--
      Virtue and honour, courage and the songs
    Men sing about their hearthstones--stolen gleams
      In the poor heart unbroken by its wrongs,

    “These gods, of man’s refusal of the beast
      The half pathetic, wholly fleeting sign
    Who in that tenderness are gods the least
      Where human weakness finds them most divine,

    “These pitiful gods, fabric of mankind’s tears
      A dream of what all human hearts have wanted
    The vision at the end of all the years
      The holy ghost that half the world has haunted,

    “These gods are mortal as the heart that shaped them
      And in that hour when mankind’s heart must break
    These gods who only by that heart escaped them
      Fall to the wolf and Jörmungand the snake.”

    Fate pauses, but from Hela’s halls is heard
      A voice is young when all the gods are dead.
    Balder the beautiful has one more word
      The word that even Fate must leave unsaid.

    “True they depart the half-gods, and the snake
      And Fenris come. But in the heart’s defection
    I, Balder, bound in Hell for that heart’s sake
      I am the life and I the resurrection.

    “I, love, being loosed, will take my harp up--so--
      Singing what all the world at last will learn
    ‘The devils come because the half-gods go
      But in the end the gods, the gods return.’”




         WHEELS 1919.


    Why d’you write about Frascati’s
      You who from the balcony leaning
    ’Neath the lure that was Astarte’s
      Find a negroid devil grinning.

    Changed indeed and almost stupid
      Yielding to analysis
    Now a Piccadilly cupid
      Hanging on a painted kiss.

    Now a toy in two dimensions
      Operated by a string
    In your hand, whose interventions
      Set the object capering.

    You who at the higher level
      Know love as he truly is
    Not the fair Assyrian devil,
      Not the poor idolatries,

    Of the savage, not the crazes
      Say of Shelley, and his set:
    But you find him (as your phrase is)
      Palm to palm in quiet sweat.

    That’s a way, O brother brother
      A new way for verse to move
    There’s an older and another
      Will you listen? way of love.

    I from that same terrace waiting
      For the music to begin
    “Amoureuse” anticipating
      Watched a boy who blundered in.

    Slim he was, a little stooping
      At the shoulders as it seemed,
    Eyes on which the lids were drooping
      Seeing only what he dreamed.

    Where he came was noise and clatter,
      But the pandemonium
    Either didn’t seem to matter
      Where he stood or else grew dumb.

    And the waltz the band was creaking,
      Like a cluster, round his head
    Changed to cry “What’s music seeking
      Save what he has left unsaid.”

    And like flowers, bourgeois faces
      Overtaken by the tune,
    Pilfered unimagined graces
      From an unimagined June.

    And, when once again the Babel
      Rose, though we had never stirred,
    There between us at the table
      At Frascati’s was the third.

    What’s the good of all this antic
      You’ll impatiently exclaim,
    Still incurably romantic
      Still incurably the same.

    Only this--that at Frascati’s
      If one does not wash one’s hands
    That old magic was Astarte’s
      Goes, before one understands.




         THE WELL.


    At full afternoon slowly the branches
      Stirred as of old and fragrant with flowers
    Touched with a breath of wind look down and wonder
      To where--far below--is the delicate water.

    Here should be peace as was peace and splendour
      Of hearts’ first stirrings, the eye to the hills
    Turned, the call of the perilous margins
      Life just beginning, but life well begun.
    Here by the well we played (you remember)
      (Then too the grasses grew at the edges
    Tempting small hands but tempt now no longer)
      Here by the well we dreamed after playing.

    Have you forgotten (or has death no mercy)
      How bright the days were and how the evening
    Softer than sleep laid her mysterious
      Hands on the garden soothing and changing.
    Here at the well side we loved after dreaming
      Since we had played by it, since we had dreamed.
    Here at the well side love that was wakened
      Sank like a stone, but leaving no ripple.

    Here are our shapes that play dream love quarrel,
      Here are our dreams (and if there were dreamers,
    If we were not like our visions a dream)
      All is not over--is all then over?

    Here is the well and the delicate water
      Far below gleaming, the starred white branches
    Fragrant with flowers. Here is the noontide,
      Even the grasses grow at the edges.
    What then is gone? If we were the dreamers
      (And not a dream) then all must be over.
    I an old man cold, fruitless and lonely,
      Watch by the water, which you cannot see.

    But if we two are dreams of a dreamer,
      All is not over, and here together
    Age falls from me, and from you the mantle
      Death seemed to cast, and here by the well side
    Lifted again is the voice of your singing,
      Golden again are the perilous margins,
    Sweet are your eyes and young and immortal
      Our hearts are set to the day and the hills.




         JUDAS.


    Not I, oh Christ, not I betrayed thee
    But He was traitor, He who made thee
    Born of a village carpenter
    With such immortal longings stir
    As stretched beyond the world and found
    In God himself the final wound.
    Through me thou wast by soldiers taken
    By Him, by Him on the Cross forsaken.




         THE NIGHT.


    Be quiet bird
      Be silent all
    That e’er were heard
      And cease to call.

    Drop perfume rose
      And flowers white
    Put off your shows
      For see ’tis night.

    Soft creatures slow
      Begin to pass,
    And thousands grow
      From out the grass.

    With deep low whirr
      The air is full
    And through the fir
      The moon shines cool.

    There is no pain
      Sorrow is dead
    Slow Charles’ wain
      Wheels overhead.

    There is no grief
      All things have ease
    No bough or leaf
      Stirs on the trees.




         OTHER SONNETS.




         THREE SONNETS OF LOVE.


                  I.

       AT NOONTIDE SEEKING.

    Can love being love and therefore magical
      When summer and the roses lie between,
    Find back to spring? Or shall he know at all
      The places where his golden feet have been
    At noontide seeking. Shall he know again
      The tune of dawn, the unconditioned sky,
    The world before the coming of the rain,
      That like a shadow waited and went by,
    Soft like a God and like a God aflame?
      Ah will he find that murmur at your lips,
      Still see you standing, as the morning stands,
    With fingers stretched that touched and fled and came
      To mine again, warm to the tender lips
      Once lilies and now roses--Oh your hands?


                  II.

             AN ACCUSATION.

    What have you given, love, to those who gave
      All for your sake? What gift to weigh the worth
    Of those who, having all, did nothing save,
      But for a kiss made jetsam of the earth?
    What answer have you for the thronging ghosts--
      Gentlemen of high heart, who were not brave
    Because of you? What for the stricken hosts
      Of those who, seeking truth, embraced the grave
    Your magic sets about the brain? What way
      Of answer have you for the fallen tears
        Of those who heard you calling, and, once strong
    As being pure, became the body’s prey?
      What answer, O sweet God, to all the years
        That worshipped you and crowned you, and were wrong?


                  III.

          THE TREMBLING BRIM.

    Love, if remorseless, needeth no defence,
      (You say) for though he waste our lives it seems
    A moment spent with love is recompense,
      For all the might have beens of all our dreams.
    Yet is there something in the might have been
      Was never yet in love. O trembling brim
    Of the far country, that our eyes have seen,
      Have seen and turned from for the sake of him.
    Are there no pleasant places, no strange deeds
      Waiting the comer? Is there no great sea
        Watched by immaculate angels who attend
    Our sails that linger? No red star that leads
      To where beyond all passion shaken free
      We follow the great road that has no end?




         THE REPLY.


    All things are true of love, save these things only,
        That at the long day’s end when love is over,
        He’s of love cheated who was once a lover,
    And she, by love once visited, left lonely.
    The dream is done, but here’s no cause for sorrow
      When beauty’s seal is on the dream descending.
      Beauty is mortal, beauty has an ending,
    Beauty and love alone need no to-morrow.
    All other things--courage and truth and virtue--
      Have the one doom, the lust for the immortal.
        Love only, with lost beauty, life outpaces,
    Cold, though they burn, untroubled, though they hurt you,
      And white, like gods, when through the sculptured portal
        The starshine enter and the moon’s cold graces.




         GOD GAVE US BODIES....


    God gave us bodies for suffering and for strangers,
      To have their will of. We divided waken
    To find the heart that won through all its dangers
      By the stained body at the dawn forsaken.
    We said of love “The body, and its langours
      Are but a little thing, though sweet. Unshaken
    Behold the heart!” Fools! Who forgot the angers
      Of blood despised and the heart overtaken
    By the gross hands of lust even at the portal
      Of bliss. And not for any tears is altered
    Love thus betrayed, yet though betrayed, immortal,
      Struggling for ever and for ever haltered.
    God gave us bodies; let them write in heaven
      “Love we forgive, but God is not forgiven.”




         RONSARD AND HELENE.


    You sang, Ronsard, in your imperial lay
      Hélène, and sang as only you would dare
    That she would cry, in reading, old and grey
      “Ronsard sang this of me when I was fair.”
    That was youth spoke, Ronsard, who will not stay
      To wonder if his own divine despair
    May not with losing loveliness outweigh
      Kisses, that given, melt upon the air.
    If youth but knew, Ronsard! The things that seem
      Would he not barter for the things that are,
    And leave his mistress to embrace her dream
      Exchange her lips for her lost beauty’s star?
    Losing Hélène youth finds the lovelier truth,
    If youth but knew! But then he were not youth.




         THE DRIFT OF THE LUTE.


    Love, lay aside your lute and leave the roses
      That with the bays are twined. No time for sweeping
      The strings now in the hush of the heart, nor reaping
    Summer’s fulfilment. For the daylight closes
    With laying on of hands and the heart shriven,
      And mystical washing away of sorrow,
      So there is neither yesterday nor morrow
    But quiet and the world to healing given.
    And if such peace o’er lute and roses drifted
      Would seem to beggar love of coronation
        Thus in the darkness fallen on an ending,
    See! Than the sun, whose golden hands were lifted
      In heaven, now cloaked, more lovely seek her station,
        The moon consummate in her place ascending.




         LOVE AND BEAUTY.


    Even tho’ love were done, shall we complain
        If in the world there’s hidden loveliness
      Born of that love, and not a lost caress
    But makes us poorer to the common gain?
    This beauty may adorn with deeper stain
      The cool first jonquil, or with light redress
      The vision of a star, and thus confess
    That love, though lost, is never lost in vain.
    And if for others we have lit this flame,
      While us the gloom invests of dying embers,
      Being so separate, your heart remembers,
    As mine, the world before the wonder came,
    For that sweet change we spent our hearts in heaven,
    Thus briefly won, thus lost, and thus forgiven.




         WAR VERSE.




         V. D. F.

     (_Ave atque Vale._)


    You from Givenchy, since no years can harden
      The beautiful dead, when holy twilight reaches
      The sleeping cedar and the copper beeches,
    Return to walk again in Wadham Garden.
    We, growing old, grow stranger to the College,
      Symbol of youth, where we were young together,
      But you, beyond the reach of time and weather,
    Of youth in death for ever keep the knowledge.
    We hoard our youth, we hoard our youth, and fear it,
      But you, who freely gave what we have hoarded,
      Are with the final goal of youth rewarded
    The road to travel and the traveller’s spirit.
    And, therefore, when for us the stars go down,
    Your star is steady over Oxford Town.




         ENGLAND.


    Dear English heart, the open waterways,
      The sea that is aware of liberty,
      And your great ships, her servitors, the sea
    Deep, as your depths, saying of pomp and blaze,
    “These things are not for us,” since other days
      Return, and when the flag is shaken free,
      Cold captains, Drake and Nelson, watch with thee,
    Whose eyes, of boastings cleared and empty praise,
    Beyond the wrecked armadas find the soul
      That unto battle brings our captains’ test:
      “Triumph is good, but honour still is best.
    Conquest of what is evil, and no goal
      Of self-advancement. For the world set free
      The ships of England keep the English sea.”




         THE MOON IN FLANDERS.


    Soldiers that after struggle in the night
      See the cold stars assume their shining place,
      Watch the sweet moon and her unaltered grace
    Mocking with peace the battle-tortured sight,
    Think these not careless. These were not less white
      Long years ago upon the upturned face
      Of other soldiers also of your race
    Who on those fields fought such another fight,
    These stars, this moon, in their high citadel
      Of heaven are witness in the Low Country,
      Whose lights are the mere lights of history
    Falling on you, these on your fathers fell.
      See through the reek and horror, shining through,
      Cold lights indeed, but lights of Waterloo!




         THE SOLDIER SPEAKS.


    This then was love of women. O how little
      Remembered, being free! Say she was tender
        And had a lure of the hands. Here ruthless splendour
    Outlures that lure. And, look you, love was brittle
    That broke, and none could heal it, being sated.
      But this is lasting, this is always stranger
      Each terrible new dawn, for each new danger
    May be the last of all. O, we have waited
    On love like cowards, and the worshipped woman
      Enslaved and shamed us. But that shame is over.
        We are with death acquainted, and to riot
    And call of blood and tenderness and human
      Regrets, he does succeed this final lover
        Whose love is freedom and whose gift is quiet.




         FLOWERS AT HAMPTON COURT.


    The chestnut trees in Bushey Park are lit
      This year as always since the spring knows naught
    Of war and death, and still the shadows flit
      Across the dappled grass and burnish it.
    And still at night the moon in stately sort
      Is tranquil with the avenues, and lights
      The sleeping palace, as on other nights
      Of springs long past; but searching for the rose
      In vain, the dawn a little whisper knows:
    “Where are the flowers that were at Hampton Court?”

    Two years ago when all the trees were green
      The old red walls were unto to summer brought,
    By joyous bands of lilies and the lean
      Daffodils danced before or ran between.
    Where are they gone these blooms of good report?
      And where the lad and where the laughing maid
      Who came to wonder and to love who stayed?
      For a lost flower is a little thing
      But a lost lover is the end of spring.
    “Where are the flowers that were at Hampton Court?”

    Ah! spring these flowers are growing otherwhere,
      In a new soil a changing radiance taught,
    Born of the soul and nourished of the air,
      Sweeter though scentless and unseen more fair.
    Where are they gone these blooms of good report?
      Is it perhaps that where the Tigris flows
      There blooms an unaccustomed English rose?
      And where the guns have killed the spring in France
      The English lilies break a silver lance?
    “Where are the flowers that were at Hampton Court?”

    If thus the flowers, where are those who here
      Themselves fresh flowers with the springtime fraught,
    Saw the first leaves in Bushey Park appear
    The dead swept leaves the leaves of yesteryear?
      Where are they gone those lads of good report?
      It may be they are sleeping; it may be
      Strange lands have taken them or a strange sea.
      But wheresoever in the world they lie
      An English voice till that world ends will cry
    “Here are the flowers that were at Hampton Court?”


                _Printed at The Vincent Works, Oxford._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of London Sonnets, by Humbert Wolfe

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LONDON SONNETS ***

***** This file should be named 61598-0.txt or 61598-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/5/9/61598/

Produced by Chuck Greif, MWS and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
